[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So
I'm going to open exercise 5 and
then I'm going to split my view.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
I'm going to open exercise
3 fixed on the side so
that we can compare these two,
actually do that reverse.
So we're going to try to do a side
by side comparison of what we were
how we were solving Promises with how
we're gonna solve it with asynquence
because the purpose of the exercise
that is to show you the similarities and
show off a little bit of
how asynquence can improve.
Okay, so
first of all we have the getFile function.
And on the left you can see
that we're creating a Promise.
So on the right we want to do something
very similar but a single step sequence
is the same thing as a Promise,
roughly conceptually the same thing.
So to create a single step asynquence,
we're gonna make call ASQ,
the function ASQ, which receives
a callback that we need to call so
that's much like the resolve callback
that we're getting over here.
Let me zoom out just slightly so
it's a little easier to
see more at a time, okay?
And we're still going to
call the fake Ajax call.
With the file URL in we're gonna
pass in done instead of resolve.
So that's all we have to do to
make a single step asynquence
call, in the most
traditional way possible.
And you'll notice that it's basically
the same thing as the Promise
except it's a little shorter and simpler.
We're not calling the new keyword.
We don't have some more
complicated set of resolve and
reject that we're having to keep track of,
we just have the single callback for done.
There are ways to signal errors, but you
don't have a separate callback for that.
So well get too far into that, but
I do just want to quickly show you that
the value of having a library is that
there are additional benefits that we can
get so one of those benefits is that it's
such a common pattern to need to wrap
like to create these wrapped utilities.
Basically it's called lifting taking a
function that only receives callbacks and
turning that into a function that
will return us asynquence or
return as a Promise.
So another way of doing that
same thing would have been
to to make myself a getFile.
And calling an ASQ.wrap utility
that exists in the library.
Its job is to take a callback
expecting function and
make it into a Promise expecting or
Promise returning function.
So if we pass in fakeAjax to it.
Now by default the assumption here
is that it treats callbacks as
error first style, because that's
extremely common in the node world.
In our particular case fakeAjax
is not error for style.
So we don't wanna make that assumption.
But in the most majority case
you're gonna be dealing with error
first tile functions all over node or
other Angular libraries or
whatever in which case,
you just call wrap and that's it.
And now we have a getFile function,
I didn't need to do anything else.
I now have the getFile function that will
return us in asynquence and that's done.
You can configure this wrap to do
other things, and in this case,
we're going to tell it that we
want to do a simplecb style
wrapping because we're assuming
that the fakeAjax function
that we're dealing with is a simple
callback rather than error first style so.
Documentation on how you can
configure wrap a little bit.
Most of the time you won't need to do any
configuration at all but it has the option
of changing that wrapping behavior you
need but that one line there on line 22
that's all I need to do to create
my wrapped getFile function.
And I can call getFile
exactly the same way
as I would expect to
be able to call it so.
I just wanted to show off that there
are what there are some of those sorts of
benefits from from asynchronous libraries
they can add these utilities on,
on top of the normal course stuff and
help make some of these
tasks that we do, these remedial tasks
a little bit more straight forward.
Okay, so we'll just stick with
the easier to understand one but
you can know that there
are things like wrapping.
All right,
what about requesting the files at once?
Well I'm gonna call mine s1 cuz
it's a sequence instead of p1 but
is still fundamentally gonna
be a getFile call with file1.
And s2 is getFile("file2") and
s3 is getFile("file3"), okay?
All right, so
that's pretty straightforward.
Let's go to the chain and
look at the difference in the in
the way the chains gonna work.
We have an s1 that represents
the first step in our chains us going
to the same thing as p1.
Now in the asynquence API,
rather than calling a .then
whenever we want to do
some asynchronous step.
If we have asynchronous step,
which is what output is, we use .val.
So I'm going to call .val, and
pass an output.
>> Kyle Simpson: Remember this is to get
away from the polymorphism that can
make APIs harder to learn instead,
you just learn each step, and
it's clear that val is a synchronous step,
as opposed to an asynchronous step.
All right, so the next one,
I need to to link in the p2 step, right?
Now, remember, I told you that we
have .seq for receiving sequences.
So we could do .seq and
return s2.
>> Kyle Simpson: Looks
very similar to the way that
we do with Promise chain.
One of the advantages of having
a Promise library to give you
extra abstractions to remove some of these
paper cuts and other pointless overheads.
Asynquence allows you to
just pass s2 directly.
I'd love to have that
with the Promise chains.
We don't have that but with a sequence
we can just pass s2 directly and
so then we do .val(output).
Then we do .seq(s3).
Then we do .val(output).
Then we do .val, output("Ccomplete!"),
okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: In
addition to making that observation,
if I know that I can pass these
sequences directly into those steps,
what that actually means is I don't even
need to store these in separate variables.
I can literally take the getFile call,
replace s1.
I can take this getFile call and
put it right in place of s2.
And I can call this getFile call and
put it right in place of s3.
>> Kyle Simpson: Get
rid of those entirely.
It's still making all three getFile calls.
The one on line 29, one on line 31,
and the one on line 33,
it's still making those all upfront, all
at once cuz they're still function calls.
But those return values are immediately
piped into a chain, and
the chain knows how to handle that and
sequence it into the proper order.
So I don't even have to store
them in separate variables and
make a function to return them, so
I just have it straightforward.
So this is trying to illustrate one of
the points that I'm making, is that
the value of a Promise library, whether
you like mine or not, I have no stake in
whether you like this particular one, but
there's a bunch of great ones out there.
The purpose of Promise libraries is to
make it easier to work with Promises, and
I hope that you can see that what
we did on the right hand side Is
quite a bit easier than what we had to do
the same equivalent on the left-hand side.
That's the virtue of trying
to use Promise abstractions,
is that they have the freedom to get rid
of some of the ugly bits, the rough edges,
the weird corner case.
They have the ability to kind of
pave over some of those things, and
that's part of the design
philosophy behind
asynquence, okay?
>> Speaker 2: I used then instead of
sequence, what's the difference?
>> Kyle Simpson: The .then
function will call it the function that it
receives and if it receives a function.
It will call the function that it
receives and pass it a done call back.
The .then keyword for
legacy reasons is polymorphic
in the sense that
if you use it incorrectly and pass it
a sequence, it will not choke at you.
But the proper idiomatic usage is to call
the proper step for the proper thing.
So the purpose of the .then step
is when you want to get the done
function as a continuation and you can
use that continuation however you need.
The purpose of the sequence step is that
you are going to make your own sequence
and return it into the chain.
That makes sense?
And with five or ten minutes of practice
with my API you'll get the sense of,
I use this step for
that purpose this step for that purpose.
That's the goal.